---
layout: post
title: "2014 Books"
date: 2015-01-09 18:20:42 -0800
redirect_from: /blog/2015/01/10/2014-books/
comments: true
categories: book-reviews
---
Its a few days late, but like many others, I want to take a moment and give a quick summary of the
books I read this year. I've got quite a few more partially finished, so the 2015 follow up post
should be great too!

##<strong>[Digital Apollo: Human and Machine in Spaceflight](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2422710.Digital_Apollo) by David Mindel</strong>

According to Goodreads, I actually finished this book on December 31st, 2013. But I'm putting it
here because I easily re-read it twice in 2014: I based much of my talk from [Mountain West Ruby](/talks/#apolloMWRC)
and [RailsConf](/talks/#apolloRailsConf) on content from the book. _Digital Apollo_ does an
excellent job of covering development of hardware and software during the Apollo Program, and really
all the projects leading up to it. There are technical sections, but they aren't overly in depth and
the main narrative isn't dependent on understanding every detail.

##<strong>[The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20899335-the-adventures-of-sherlock-holmes) by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle</strong>

I have to credit Star Trek: The Next Generation for really making me aware of these excellent
stories years ago, and while I've read a few here and there, it was only this year when I sat down
and finished this 12 story collection. They're amazing bits of writing, and hugely refreshing from
non-fiction, which is what I generally read the most. Some of the plots that must have been original
when these stories were published seem clich√© today, but surely they didn't when first published.


##[Failure Is Not An Option](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/141499.Failure_is_not_an_Option) by Gene Kranz</strong>

Far more than an interesting story about the space program, this is a great read for anyone who has
ever wanted to accomplish something extremely challenging that no one has done before.  Kranz does
an incredible job of describing the details not just of all the technical challenges and
accomplishments of manned space flight, but of the emotions and team dynamics as well. Anyone
doubting that any person can, with the right amount of determination and teamwork, accomplish
anything should read this book.

##[The Path Between the Seas](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2372.The_Path_Between_the_Seas) by David McCulloug

I've been reading this book on and off for almost two years (I started in early 2013). It's truly a
monstrosity, covering the building of the Panama Canal in incredible, but interesting detail. To be
honest, I found the first half of the book, which details the comically failure-ridden initial efforts by
the French, much more entertaining and useful. The second half, where the Americans basically come
in, fix all the problems, and triumph, is great for national pride, but there's not as much to learn
from it.

##[The Day the World Discovered the Sun](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13237720-the-day-the-world-discovered-the-sun) by Mark Anderson

Astronomy and history are both long time interests of mine, but I found this book mediocre at best.
It covered too many characters, interweaving their stories in a way that was hard to follow, and the
writing felt like it was trying to be too "grand". Still, it's a short book, and describes a very
interesting and dramatic series of scientific endeavours spanning the entire globe, so I can't say I
didn't enjoy it a little.

##[Javascript: The Good Parts](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2998152-javascript) by Douglas Crockford

I re-read this book after working more deeply with Javascript this year than ever before. Having
considerably improved with the language and many of its core concepts, I found the re-read so
valuable I wrote up an entire [review](/blog/2014/07/06/javascript-the-good-parts-review/).

##[How to Win Friends and Influence People](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4865.How_to_Win_Friends_and_Influence_People) by Dale Carnegie

In some senses, everything in this book is obvious and self-evident to anyone who has ever had
feelings. On the other hand, the writing style is quite enjoyable and it's at least a great reminder
of how to work with others. For most of us, is probably a deeper exploration into describing what
makes humans happy and angry than we've thought about before. If you're turned off by the
social-engineering-sounding title, one of my friends proposed a more accurate, alternate title:
_How to Be Friendly and Be an Influencer_.


##[The Guns of August](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11366.The_Guns_of_August) by Barbara Tuchman

While I found it hard to follow at times, there can be no doubt after a chapter or two why this book
won a Pulitzer: the depth of research and fantastic writing style make this book practically a work
of art. I was pretty tired of epic history books after reading _The Path Between the Seas_ this
year, and <i>[Embers of War](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13155847-embers-of-war)</i> last
year, but still had to finish this book once I started. While both have similar themes, I preferred _Embers of War_.


##[All the Shah's Men](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46347.All_the_Shah_s_Men) by Stephen Kinzer

After _The Guns of August_, the straightforward but extremely captivating writing style of this book
was refreshing, and I finished it in just a day or two. Anyone looking for a lens into the cultures
of the middle east would benefit from reading this short but exciting book.

##[One Minute to Midnight](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2606779-one-minute-to-midnight) by Michael Dobbs

Yet another captivating history, this time on the Cuban missile crisis. Unlike _The Day the World
Discovered the Sun_ this book is not hard to follow despite covering dozens of events all over the
globe happening just minutes apart. As yet another book documenting the folly of war, this time
because of the inability of even leaders like Kennedy and Khrushchev to control their own forces
enough to avoid terrible outcomes, I've pretty much got that genre covered for a while. Fortunately,
next on my reading list is _Moby Dick_: a complete departure the trend. I didn't quite finish it in
2014 though.
