---
layout: post
title: "2015 Books"
date: "2016-02-22 15:18:03 -0500"
comments: true
categories: book-reviews
---

Like [last year](/blog/2014-books), I've been up to some reading this past year. Here's the list
along with some thoughts.

## Moby Dick by Herman Melville

I read most of this book in 2014, but didn't quite finish it. There's no doubt Melville has an
unparalleled skill with the English language. Strangely, I found all the characters, especially
Ahab, comical, rather than frightening. Perhaps Ricardo Montalban's performance in _The Wrath of
Khan_ has set the bar too high. A great read both as fiction and as a historical depiction of the
times.

## Talking with Tech Leads by Patrick Kua

Although not the case for a few years after college, these days I find myself more fascinated and
interested in the challenges of growing and organizing people, rather than software or other
technology. This book, with its many short investigations into the delicate balance the two inherent
in the tech lead role, is a helpful resource. Each essay has a different author and so covers a wide
range of viewpoints and situations. Far from being a deficit, the conclusion of this book -- that
the tech lead role is itself nearly undefinable and that there are no perfect solutions to
efficiently lead groups of people working with software -- is actually a valuable lesson.

## career.fork()

Having just moved to Berlin and looking for work at the time, I felt compelled to investigate
contracting and freelancing options, as many in Berlin do. Another short read, _career.fork()_
touches on, but doesn't attempt to completely cover, all the challenges one will face working for
themselves. Like _Tech Leads_, this brevity is useful, as there aren't any simple solutions to most
of them. This admission is something I respect about both of these books, which was absent in
another, _Managing the Unmanagable_, that I couldn't finish years ago: it's author seemed to have
claimed the problem of working with developers solved.

## Patterns of Enterprise Application Architecture by Martin Fowler

A classic architecture book from the 90s, today _PEAA_ is not likely to be as practically useful as
it once was, but is now almost a history book. The proliferation of powerful open source software
frameworks means few people will need to use the techniques in this book. But it's place as a
foundational tome of knowledge on which many of those tools are based is obvious. The first
architecture pattern it describes is familiar to anyone from the Rails world: active record.

## Flatland by Edwin Abbott Abbott

A silly, short, enjoyable story that is as much a window into its times as it is a dive into
mathematics and abstract thought.

## The Little Tea Book by George Washington Hood

I don't remember anything about this book.

## Working Effectively with Unit Tests by Jay Fields

A great and focused book on unit tests. I find myself using and sharing ideas from this book all the
time, and definitely recommend more developers read it.

## From Eternity to Here by Sean Carroll

I bought this book perhaps 5 years ago, and nearly read through it. I'm glad to have decided to
re-read and finish it. Mr. Carroll is a fantastic writer and scientists. This book covers issues
deep enough to fill philosophy, as well as science texts, but is still easy to read.

## The Orphan Master's Son by Adam Johnson

A rather surreal fiction based in North Korea, I enjoyed and disliked this book for its ridiculously
outlandish plot and characters. It was frustratingly unclear how much of this books ideas are based
in actual facts about North Korea, and which were invented by the author, but none the less it has
some fantastic sections that make it worthwhile.

## **The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo by Steig Larsson**

In the past I've claimed to prefer non-fiction books to fiction, arguing history gives us enough
fascinating stories that there is no need to invent our own. However after _The Girl With the Dragon
Tattoo_ I can no longer defend that position.

Fantastic characters, deep plot with incredible mystery, and scenes that make the suspense of any
horror film feel mild make this one of the best books I've ever read. While it uses the real
political and historical climate in Sweden to make the story even more riveting, it's immediately
clear where the fiction begins, unlike _The Orphan Master's Son_.

My only complaint about this book is a practical one: at the time I read it, I had been travelling
between the US and Europe frequently, and used reading as a way to get my sleep schedule back on
track. Mr. Larson's writing ruined those plans: unlike every other book, normally unconquerable
exhaustion after international flights couldn't stop me from staying up all night to finish it.

## 102 Minutes by Jim Dwyer

It would probably be insensitive to say I enjoyed this book, but whatever I felt, I couldn't put
this book down and finished in only a few days. Supported by what must have been a superhuman
quantity of research, _102 Minutes_ covers every human emotion in detailing the heroism and tragedy
of September 11th.

Refreshingly, _102 Minutes_ leaves no room for conspiracy theories, vilification of Muslims or
Islam, or irrational fear of terrorists. In fact, it might be argued the book blames building codes
more than anything for the tragedy: in a break from the minute-by-minute account of the morning of
September 11th, the book details how building codes of the time were written to fit the design of
the twin towers, rather than vice versa, and allowed for a construction that enabled the horrific
collapse of the buildings.

## **The Island at the Center of the World by Russel Shorto**

Second in my reading list after moving to New York City, this was a wonderful history on par with
any other I've read. Despite a setting over 300 years in the past, I see the influence of the
characters and events in this book everywhere I go in New York, which brings me great joy.

## The Girl Who Played With Fire by Steig Larsson

The sequel to _The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo_ contains the same spectacular writing and
characters, so it's still immensely enjoyable, but it's more complex plot doesn't surpass the first.

## Aviation Weather by the FAA

Long ago, the FAA distributed information on weather phenomena and the technology used to predict
and measure it together. It turns out weather itself doesn't change, but our weather related tools
sure do, so the topics were split into two books in the 70s. This book covers the former topic, and
it hasn't seen a republishing since 1975. All the information it contains is useful, but it could
use with a bit of modernization still, if even just to show higher quality pictures of different
types of clouds.

## Starting Strength by Mark Rippetoe

A great and complete book on weight training. Rippetoe has a character that is unforgettable if not
always PC or likable, but he seems to for the most part really know what he's talking about. Why
does he love milk so much though?

## The Girl who Played With Fire by Steig Larsson

Following up on what is in some respects a cliffhanger ending, it's inevitable that you will read
this book to conclusion once you start on the second book in the trilogy. Despite Larsson's
continued excellent writing, I was happy to be done with this book: the story had gotten rather
boring. I haven't yet decided if I'll read the fourth book.

## **The Martian by Andy Weir**

Bookless before a short flight, I bought _The Martian_ at an airport bookstore and finished it less
than 12 hours later. I had already seen the film but it didn't reduce my enjoyment of this funny and
scientifically accurate story.

The movie and book are both excellent, but differ especially in theme. I'd love to discuss the
details more with anyone who has enjoyed both.

Notably, I find that my consumption of potatoes has considerably increased since reading this book.

